Add tutorial on how to create high-res Workflow Screenshots (#4553)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/galaxy-interface/tutorials/workflow-posters/tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

title: Creating high resolution images of Galaxy Workflows
tags:
- workflows
questions:

> - How can I print my Workflow in high resolution?
> - How can I share high detail images of my Workflows?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How can I print or screenshot my Workflow in high resolution for a poster or presentation?
- How can I share high detail images of my Workflows?
```

(i suspect some users will be looking for 'screenshot' as a keyword, and poster is probably the №1 reason they will use this feature.)

objectives:

> - Learn how to utilize external tools to get high resolution images of you Workflow
> - Learn how to compress high resolution Workflow images to share them in the web

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a high resolution image of your Workflow, ready for a poster
- Learn how to utilize external tools to make high resolution images of your Workflow
- Learn how to compress high resolution Workflow images to share them in the web
```

time_estimation: 30M
key_points:
- Print ready screenshots
- Basic image compression
contributors:
- ElectronicBlueberry
level: Introductory
subtopic: workflows
---

Sometimes we want to share our workflows outside of Galaxy, like printing it on a poster.
Making screenshots of Workflows looses a lot of detail, often to an degree where information is lost.

There are third party tools which can help us in making high resolution screenshots that preserve all details
and produce pictures which are suitable for printing and sharing.

> {% include _includes/cyoa-choices.html option1="Print" option2="Web" default="Print"

Reviewer: oh, awesome!!

For our Workflow poster, we will likely not want to print the rest of Galaxys user interface.
</div>

<div class="Web" markdown="1">
For our screenshot, we may want to hide the rest of Galaxys user interface, so the focus is on the Workflow itself.
</div>

We could cut it out of the final image using image-manipulation tools, but this is slow and cumbersome, especially for high-res images.

From Galaxy version 23.2 onwards there is a feature with which we can hide the Galaxy UI directly.
It is meant to be used for embedding workflows, but can be accessed directly, which is perfect for purpose.

> <hands-on-title>Hiding the Galaxy UI for a Workflow</hands-on-title>
>
> 1. **Opening the Workflow Preview**
>    - Navigate to your Workflows list
>    - Press "{% icon galaxy-eye %} View" on your desired Workflow
>    - You should now see the preview page, which should look similar to this:
>      ![Galaxys Workflow Preview page with the workflow being rendered next to an info-box](./images/workflow-preview.png)
> 2. **Add the following to the URL in your browser:**
>
>    ```
>    &embed=true&buttons=false&about=false&heading=false&minimap=false&zoom_controls=false

> >    ```

Reviewer: This is fantastic and will work very well for lots of folks!

Would it be worth adding a link/button in the workflow preview page, that has the same effects? E.g. below "last update", something, maybe labelled "Print View" in a future version of Galaxy? It could help with discoverability.

Reviewer: moved to https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/17127

</div>

<div class="Web" markdown="1">
Firstly position your Workflow, so all of it is visible in the way you would like it to be on the screenshot.
</div>

> <tip-title>Can't fit your entire Workflow at once?</tip-title>
> 
> If you zoomed out as far as possible, but can't view all of your Workflow, try the following:
> * Navigate back to the full Workflow preview page (without the UI hidden)
> * Click anywhere outside of the Workflow preview (e.g. on the about section)
> * Zoom out the entire browser window a bit, by using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Mouse Wheel</kbd>, or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>-</kbd>
> * Re-add the query parameters we added in the previous section
> * If you still can't fit all of it, repeat the above steps
{: .tip}

> <hands-on-title>Creating a high-resolution screenshot</hands-on-title>
> 
> 1. **Open the Firefox Javascript console.** To do this, either:
>    - Use the shortcut <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd> (On OS X <kbd>Cmd</kbd> + <kbd>Shift</kbd> + <kbd>K</kbd>)
>    - Or navigate to the console using your mouse:
>       * Menu
>       * More Tools
>       * Web Developer Tools
>       * Console Tab

> >

Reviewer: Oh, this is, hmm. _It makes sense_. I wish the screenshot tool exposed DPR, rather than just `1`, that would be an improvement they could make.

That said, so many websites have a lil `console.err` of "if someone told you to paste code in here, don't do it" so it feels like a maybe sub-optimal thing to teach end-users to do? (alternatively it's good that they learn how the web works, that console exists, but I don't think that's a step many want to add to their poster printing journey)

Should we just stick (whatever the current equivalent of) phantomjs is, in a Galaxy tool? And then have the user provide the URL to their workflow? We could automatically add the required URL parameters / automatically check galaxy version / error if it was too low. It would be a bit clunky, having to run a tool rather, but maybe it's something worth considering? (Though it would rely on the workflow contents being completely included in the preview, i don't know if we have a 'resize viewport to include all workflow steps' button/feature yet, so, that may be sub-optimal.)

We could then also run imagemagick in that tool (or separately), wouldn't be much work to add the palette options to https://github.com/bgruening/galaxytools/tree/master/tools/image_processing/graphicsmagick

Reviewer: This discussion replaced by https://github.com/galaxyproject/galaxy/issues/17127

>    and choosing a different position from: "Dock to Bottom", "Dock to Right", "Dock to Left", "Separate Window".
>
> 3. **Make the screenshot**
>
>    In the Javascript console type:
>    ```
>    :screenshot --dpr 6
>    ```
>    After a short moment, a new screenshot should appear in your downloads folder.
>
>    The value "6" after the `--dpr` option is just an example. Keep reading to learn how to choose the right dpr value.
>
{: .hands_on}

<div class="Print" markdown="1">
> <tip-title>Choosing the right dpr value for print</tip-title>
>
> `dpr` stands for **D**evice **P**ixel **R**atio.
>  
> This is how much Firefox will scale up your screenshot. A dpr of 2, will make your screenshot twice as wide and high as you browser window.
> 
> Always go higher than you think you need, when choosing a dpr for print.
> Here's a rule-of thumb on how to determine the correct dpr:
>
> * Think about how much bigger your poster is going to be than your browser window, in physical dimensions.
>   If unsure, round up.
> * Multiply that number by 2
>
> Example: If your poster will be roughly 4 times larger than your browser window, choose a dpr of 8.
>
{: .tip}
</div>

> <div class="Web" markdown="1">

Reviewer: you should be able to use these inside the tip box, if it helps reduce duplication (just ensure newlines before/after to trigger `<p>`s in the rendered html

Author: Ah, I did not add any newlines before I think. Thanks, I'll re-structure some boxes using this!
